Results missing links (#16)
greenelab/annorxiver_manuscript: content/04.results.md

As with the first principal component we provide example preprints from the systems biology category to reinforce this concept (Supplemental Table {@tbl:five_pc2_table}). 
More principal component word clouds can be found on our journal recommender website ([greenelab.github.io/annorxiver-journal-recommender](https://greenelab.github.io/annorxiver-journal-recommender/)) and within our online repository (see Data Availability).

> ### Mending Missing Preprints to Published Versions Links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Identifying preprints that were not linked with their corresponding publications
```

![

> The distances between preprints and their published version is on average lower than the distance between preprints and a randomly selected published article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The distances between preprints and their published version was on average lower than the distance between preprints and a randomly selected published article in the same journal.
```

This violin plot shows the distribution of distances between both categories.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/annorxiver/131dcac75d179cb36992af4a31188031800c0958/biorxiv/article_distances/output/figures/biorxiv_article_distance.svg){#fig:article_distance_distributions}

![

> Accuracy decreases as preprint-published article distances become larger and larger. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The proportion of publication-preprint pairs decreased as the distance for publication-preprint pairs increased.
```

This bar chart depicts the fraction of true positives over the total number of pairs in each bin.
Each bin contains a total of 200 annotated pairs and is based on the percentiles of the preprint-published distribution.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/annorxiver/131dcac75d179cb36992af4a31188031800c0958/biorxiv/article_distances/output/figures/distance_bin_accuracy.svg){#fig:article_bin_accuracy}

> When a preprint gets published typically authors notify bioRxiv on the publication event; however, there are instances where authors may fail to notify bioRxiv.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many journals require that authors update preprints with links to the published version of their article.
This is accomplished in two ways: _bioRxiv_ may detect the link and automatically add it or authors may notify _bioRxiv_ that their preprint was published.
```

> These events generate gaps where preprints end up unlinked to their respective published versions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Missing preprint-publication links can make it more difficult to identify the version of record of scientific manuscripts, and has been used to estimate the fraction of articles that are eventually published [@doi:10.7554/eLife.45133].
```

> We sought to use document embedding distance as a way to fill in these missing link gaps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used distance in the document space to identify preprints without an annotated publication but that contained very similar content to published articles.
```

> We noticed distances between preprints and their published counterparts are lower than preprints paired with a random published article (Figure {@fig:article_distance_distributions}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We found that distances between preprints and their corresponding published versions were lower than preprints paired with a random article published in the same journal (Figure {@fig:article_distance_distributions}).
```

> This observation suggests that pairs with low embedding distances could be considered a true match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This observation suggests that pairs with low embedding distances could be considered a true match, so we separated articles into quantiles based on the distribution of distances between true preprint-publication pairs.
```

> We annotated a sample of 200 pairs with a high inter-rater reliability score of 91.7% (Cohen's Kappa [@doi:10.1177/001316446002000104]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We curated 50 potential preprint-publication pairs from each of four quantiles in duplicate, and found a high inter-rater reliability for this task achieving a Cohen's Kappa [@doi:10.1177/001316446002000104] of 91.7%.
```

> Out of these two hundred pairs we found that pairs with an embedding distance in the 0-25th and 25th-50th percentile bins have almost 98% chance of being a true match (Figure {@fig:article_bin_accuracy}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out of these two hundred pairs we found that approximately 98% of pairs with an embedding distance in the 0-25th and 25th-50th percentile bins were true matches (Figure {@fig:article_bin_accuracy}).
```

> Using these two bins, we were able to fill in 1,720 missing links within bioRxiv.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These two bins contained 1,720 preprint-article pairs, suggesting that many preprints have been published but not previously connected with their published versions.
```

![
The overall fraction of published preprints is higher than originally estimated in [@doi:10.7554/eLife.45133].
This line plot shows the publication rate of preprints since bioRxiv first started.
The x-axis represents months since bioRxiv started and the y-axis represents the proportion of preprints published.
The light blue line represents the publication rate estimated by Abdill et al. [@doi:10.7554/eLife.45133]. 
The dark blue line represents the updated publication rate without missing links added while the dark green line is the updated publication rate with missing links added.
The horizontal lines represent the overall proportion of preprints  that are published.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/annorxiver/8dbc3f8e248ff3e7958c3420363443f0c61b2cc1/biorxiv/article_distances/output/figures/publication_rate.png){#fig:updated_pub_rate}

> We utilized our newly found links to reassess the overall preprint publication rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We overlaid these new annotations onto existing annotations to reassess the overall preprint publication rate reported by Abdill et al. [@doi:10.7554/eLife.45133].
```

> We observed that majority of missing links were for preprints posted around 2017-2018 (Figure {@fig:updated_pub_rate}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our filtering criteria were intentionally stringent, so the increased estimate of publication rate amounts to a few percent (Figure {@fig:updated_pub_rate}).
Many of these missed annotations were for preprints posted in the 2017-2018 interval.
As opposed to those published in 2019 and later, these preprints are old enough that they are likely to have been published but it was interesting that the rate was not observed to be higher for older preprints.
```

> Furthermore, we observed that the overall proportion of preprints published increased to 46% (Figure {@fig:updated_pub_rate}); however, this is an underestimate on the true proportion of preprints published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Lastly, the increase in overall preprints published suggests that overtime more and more preprints are getting published with moderate success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
